C data types are declaration for variables, and this determines the type, size and operations perform in a variable.

Data type in c are classified as 

1. User defined data types
2. Primary data types
3. Secondary data types

Primary data types
  
Primary data types or basic data types are the data types which are already defined in the system.
   for example- int,float,char,double.
   
Secondary data types

Secondary data types are the data types derived from the original data types.
  for example- array,pointers, etc.
  
User defined data types

User defined data type are the typical data type that we can derived out of any existing data type in a program.
  for example- structure, union, enum..etc
  
Now let us discuss the data types in detail 

When we discuss about data types we can consider two things the range of a variable and its size.
size is compiler dependent and you can find the size of a data type in your compiler by using sizeof operatior for example, sizeof(int).
And the range which is the maximum and minimum value supported for the data type by the can be calculated by the formula.
For signed data types, use formula -2^(n-1) to (2^(n-1))-1.
For unsigned data types, the range will be 0 to (2^n) – 1.

now you might be wondering what is signed and unsigned data types
unsigned variables are the varibles that hold only positive numbers.
and signed data types are the data types that hold negative and positive values.

Integer can be further classified as short int, long int, unsigned short int, and unsigned long int.
Short int and long int differ in terms of amount of memory it used to occupies a value, infact the amount of memory depends on the compiler.
in dev cpp compiler, short int occupies 2 bytes. long and unsigned long int occupies 4 bytes.and is the same for float except it can hold real numbers.

char is used to store a character and it generally takes 1bytes of memory.


Variable

A variable is nothing but a name given to a storage area that our program can manipulate.Each variable in c has a specific layout of the variables memory.

example-int i,here i is a variable.

Lvalues and Rvalues in C

There are two kinds of expressions in C:
1. lvalue: An expression that is an lvalue may appear as either the left-hand or right-hand
side of an assignment.
2. rvalue: An expression that is an rvalue may appear on the right- but not left-hand side
of an assignment.





