C Program structures

A C program consist of the following parts.
1. Preprocessor Commands
2. Functions
3. Variables
4. Statements & Expressions
5. Comments

Now Let us take a look at the following program

//My first C program
#include<stdio.h>

int main()
{
    
  printf("Hellow World\n");
  
  return 0;
 }

Now we writen our first C program! 
Let me explain it from the beginning so that you can understant each and every line in the program.

First we begin with a "//" sign which is known as comments in the program and is ignored by the compiler.
This two forward slashes help us to add little comments or notes in the program.
 
In this program the #include is a preprocessor command which tells the compiler to include stdio.h file before going to the program,
and the stdio.h file has necesary information to include the input and output related functions in our program.

The int main() is the main function where program execution begins.

Now the printf, which is a function available in c which causes the message "Hello world" to be displayed on the screen.

return 0, terminate the main function and return value 0.


C Basic syntax

Tokens in c
A token is either a keyword, an identifier, a constant, a string literal, or a symbol. For example, the following C statement consists of
five tokens:

printf("hello world");

the individual tokens are

1. printf
2. "
3. hello world
4. (
5. ;

Semicolon in C

Semicolon is a statement terminator in C and each statement should end with a semicolon in C program and it indicates the end of one logical entity.

Identifiers

Identifiers is a name used to identify a variable, function, or any other user defined item.
Now let us look at the following program to print an integer value.

#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
   int value=10;
   printf("Value=%d",value);
 
   return 0;
 }

In this program "value" is a variable which store 10. Value is considered as an identifier.
There are sertain rulues to follow and the rules are described below.

 1.An identifier starts with a letter A to Z or a to z or an underscore _ followed by zero
or more letters, underscores, and digits (0 to 9).

2.C does not allow punctuation characters such as @, $, and % within identifiers.
3.C is a case sensitive programming language. Thus, Manpower and manpower are two different
identifiers in C.

 Keywords
 
 Keywords are reserved word in c which has specific meaning to the C compiler.
 Listed are some keywords in C.
 auto,else,beak,continue,char,float,int...
 
 Whitespace in C
 
 whitespace is known as a blank line, and a C compiler totally ignores it.
 
int age=1;

in this statement there shoud have at least one whitespace between the int and age so that the compiler could easily distinguish them.

Now I hope you understood the C programming structure and syntax.
